## Sharelov-Shortener

# Installation

Add private repository to `composer.json` as we are using bitbucket you need to install an ssh key.


```json
"repositories":[
    {
        "type": "vcs",
        "url":  "git@bitbucket.org:keiwer/sharelov-shortener.git"
    }
]
```

Require this package in your `composer.json` and update composer. This will download the package.

```json
"sharelov/sharelov-shortener":"dev-master"
```
After updating composer, add the ServiceProvider to the providers array in `config/app.php`

```php
Sharelov\Shortener\ShortenerServiceProvider::class,
```

You can use the facade for shorter code. Add this to your aliases:

```php
'Shortener'=>Sharelov\Shortener\Facades\Shortener::class,
```

Finally run `composer dump-autoload` to reload the files and then, run `php artisan migrate` to install links table.

# Usage

Use this route to decode a shortened URL, if the URL don't exist it will run `abort(404)` otherwise it will perform a redirect to the stored url asociated with that hash.
```php
Route::get('/sh/{hash}',[
    'as'=>'shortener.get',
    'uses'=>'Sharelov\Shortener\Controllers\LinksController@translateHash'
]);
```

Use this route to short a URL, if the URL already exist on the database it will return the hash code otherwise it will create  a new URL|Hash tuple and it will return a json response with the hash and the url with the current domain indicating the status of the request.

```php
Route::post('/sh',[
    'as'=>'shortener.store',
    'uses'=>'Sharelov\Shortener\Controllers\LinksController@store'
]);
```
Succesfull json response
```json
{
    "success": "true",
    "hash": "D7ZR6",
    "url": "http://sharelovdev.dev/sh/D7ZR6"
}
```
Unsuccessfull json response
```json
{
    "success": "false",
    "hash": "",
    "url": ""
}
```

For using the facade don't forguet to include it `use Shortener;` and then you can call the next methods:

Returns the hash for the url sended as a parameter and stores an object in the links table.
```php
Shortener::make($url)
```

Returns the url corresponding to a hash string in the database.
```php
Shortener::getUrlByHash($hash)
```

# Configuration

You can change the domain name for the urls generated by the Shortened by adding to your config/app.php the next variable:

```php
'sh-domain' =>'http://google.com',
```
With this the Shortener will return urls with the specified domain.


